---
layout: post
title: Galloway on tax inequality, Amazon/Bezos tax evasion, and the plight of economic workhorses in the middle class
---

> Complexity favors the wealthy and our tax system slowly but surely, whether it’s capital gains on stocks (the top 1% own 50% of the stocks) ... so capital gains tax deduction is nothing but a transfer of wealth from the poor to the rich...even, I would argue, mortgage tax, mortgage interest tax deduction is nothing but a transfer of wealth form the poor to the rich, because: who owns homes? Old, rich people.  Who rents? Young, middle class people.  So our tax system slowly but surely has been nothing but an elegant transfer of wealth from the poor to the rich.  

> I would love somebody to do an analysis... I believe the most valuable company in the world and the wealthiest man in the world, Amazon and Jeff Bezos respectively, have not only not paid any tax, but I believe they have been subsidized by the government.  I think when New York gives $3 billion dollars in subsidies to Amazon as a function of this incredibly deft gamification of the commonwealth, with Bezos owning 16% of the company, effectively the government has written a check to Jeff Bezos, personally, for $500 million. And if you look at what Bezos has likely done with his wealth... he never sells shares so he never incurs a tax liability, he just borrows against his shares from JP Morgan at probably a 2% interest rate and keeps **rolling**, but never actually pays taxes and then he’ll put all his wealth in a trust and then it will be transferred without taxes, so he’s basically building a dynasty that’s been subsidized by tax payers.  The wealthiest man in the world, the most valuable company in the world: not paying any taxes.

> You know who gets really screwed, Kara?  What I would refer to as the work horses and that is people who earn between $100-150K and $1M a year in current income.  If you’re living in New York or California, you’re paying an effective tax rate of between 48 and 52%.  So, what you call the wealthy, current income work horses -- the partners in law firms, the entrepreneurs -- the people who **don’t** get their fair share are the people who get the majority of their income through capital gains.  Basically, the investors and the capital owners.  But the people who do, I think, pay an unfair share to the high end are, who a lot of people would deem as wealthy -- the work horses.

*- Scott Galloway, Pivot Podcast, Feb 1, 2019*